Deadline: 8 November


Assignment 4
Implement the two transformations for our "Pécs Assembler 23"

The skeleton of the project can be found in the bodri repository.

0. Finish everithyinf from the previous assignments, that are
needed for the transformations.

1. Divide up the task, and assign the subtasks to group members.
Document this in a file that you upload to the git. This must be
the first upload. I will chechk, who commits what later, and
distribute the points accordingly.

2. The first transformation traverses the abstract syntax tree,
and determines the machine code byte positions for every line.
Traverses means, that starts from the first line and visits
every line in order. The root of the AST is stored in the
global variable astroot in transformtester.c.

The determnation of the bytepositions can be done as follows.
At the beginning, the byteposition is undefined.
 If you meet an LT_SECTION line, the the byteposition of the
next line is determined by the number after the keyword origin.
I.e: after this line:

section text origin 0x8100

the byteposition of the next line will be 0x8100.

The LT_LABEL and LT_DEFINITION lines do not change the byteposition.
For an LT_INSTRUCTION or LT_LABEL_PLUS_INSTRUCTION line,
the position of the next line is determined by the length of the
current instruction. This length can be either 1, 2, or three
depending on the opcode and the arguments. The length is added
to the current byteposition to get the byteposition of the next line.
Some combination of opcodes and arguments are illegal, in these
cases print an error message and return false.

For example:
section text origin 0x8100
    mov a, [0xfff0]  ; the byte position is 0x8100 here. The length of the instruction is 3
    inc a            ; the byte position is 0x8103 here. The length of the instruction is 1
    jmp somewhere    ; the byte position is 0x8104 here. The length of the instruction is 3

For an LT_DATA and LT_LABEL_PLUS_DATA line the length is the number of bytes that is written
there. For example (continuing from above):

   db  1,2,3,4,5,6   ; the byte position is 0x8107 here. The length of this line is 6


Also, when encountering a line with a label, the identifier and the byteposition
must be inserted into the symbol table as a key-value pair. The symboltable is
implemented in symboltable.h, there are three functions: you can put something
there, check that a key is already there, and read back the value, if the key
is indeed there. (This is a very simple implementation, if you do not like it,
you can change it to a better.)


3. The second transformation also traverses the abstract syntax tree,
and evaluates the expressions in the definitions. This transformatin
does not modify the AST, just the symbol table.
If a line is LT_DEFINITION, then the expression on the right hand side
is evaluated, then the identifier on the left hand side and the
evaluated value are put into the symbol table. If this identifier
is already in the symbol table, the print an error message and return false.

The evaluation if an expression is a recursive procedure.
The value of an ET_NUM is the number itself. The value of an
ET_IDENT is the value found in the symbol table for this
ident. If there is no entry for this ident in the symbol table, then
print the error message: undefined variable and return false.
For evaluating an ET_PLUS node, you first evaluate the
left and right subexpressions and add the results.
Similarly for multiplication and other binary operations.
(In case of division or reminder, check that the
right subexpresson is not zero.)
